

1. Why MapReduce program is needed in Pig Programming?
A) Pig is a platform that makes data analysis issues to execute in a easier way. Here the program is writen in pig latin
     similar to query in sql requiring an execution engine for execution.
     So, when a program is in Pig Latin, Pig engine converts  the program into MapReduce jobs. Thus MapReduce acts as the 
     execution engine here.

2. What are advantages of Pig over MapReduce?
A)* Comparing to mapreduce ,it is more like an english language ,concise (unlike java).
    * best tool to make the large unstructured data to structured.
    * A 100 lines Java code written for MapReduce can be reduced to 10 lines of PIG code.


3. What is Pig engine and what is its importance?
A) PIG ENGINE    : It is an execution environment to run the pig latin programs.
	              It has 2 modes - local mode, mapreduce mode.
    IMPORTANCE : It creates an environment to execute Pig scripts into series of map reduce job in a parallel fashion .

4. What are the modes of Pig execution?
A) Pig execution can be done in 2 modes:
       (i) Local mode  : This includes local execution in single JVM where all files are installed and run by local host.
		No need to start or install hadoop.
       (ii)Mapreduce mode : This is a default mode, where distributed execution is done over hadoop cluster.
		          Its mandatory to start hadoop.

5. What is Grunt Shell in Pig? 
A) * The pig latin scripts can be run in a shell called Grunt shell. This can be invoked using "fs" and "sh" commands.
     * This grunt can be either used in interactive shell mode or in batch mode.
     * This works with the help of DFS commands.

6. What are the features of Pig Latin language?
A) (i) Dataflow language - executes sequence of operations, not necessary that they must be executed in order.
     (ii) Quick start and interoperability - it supports ad-hoc data analysis.
     (iii) It supports Parallelism factor.
     (iv) Debugging Environment proves it to be unique.

7. Is Pig Latin commands case sensitive?
A) Yes, pig latin commands (including relations and fields) are case sensitive.
     Whereas name of the parameters and all other keywords are case insensitive.
     Ex : Name of relations A,B,C are case sensitive.

8. What is a data flow language? 
A) Data flow language is also called Pig that supports in parallel processing
     Data flow language can get a stream of data which passes from one instruction to another to be processed.
     This basically includes jumps,loops and conditions.

